commence writing the first draft of volume 3 with a new markdown doc file @vol3DanielLyonDenWolfLair.md with the first chapter opening scene as Daniel awakes in his cold dark Vraxx prison cell somehwere in Siberia alone and resigned to his ill fated shortened life expectancy. it is completely dark and Daniel worries he has lost his vision

Daniel worked with Smoot and Herreid as a NASA contactor but did not attend MIT; he attended Columbia U in NYC and Johns Hopkins in Baltimore and his lonesome existence in the cold cell is filled with memories of universities and his NASA early career

✦ Okay, I'll revise the first chapter of vol3DanielLyonDenWolfLair.md to reflect Daniel's updated backstory. I'll correct his academic history, stating he
  attended Columbia and Johns Hopkins and worked with Smoot and Herreid as a NASA contractor, not an MIT student. I will also enrich his solitude in the Vrax  cell with vivid memories from his university days and early NASA career, contrasting his vibrant past with his current grim reality.

without removing existing prose in @vol3DanielLionDenWolfLair.md write an outline with Zora learning that she is pregnant with twins via Daniel and during the first 9 chapters she describes her life in her notes, assuming Daniel has been killed by the Vraxx and she eventually gives birth to twin boys she names Gregory and Christopher. 

 the opening scene of @vol3DanielLionDenWolfLair.md include Daniel contemplating his columbia core curriculum and the writings of homer and
  heroditus and plato's republic

Daniel also recalls his readings of Thucydides and the 20 years war between Athens and Sparta and wonders if the Vraxx are wolf-like versions of the Spartans

Daniel wonders if the Vraxx are like the ancient Spartans, is their population 90% Helot slaves?

Daniel resolves to converse with the Vraxx who occasionally visit his cell to provide water and modest provision and are dressed differently than the larger more militant types who torture and question him. Eventually he makes a friend of a young Vraxx and learns more about their enslavement.

the young vraxx daniel befriends is sympathetic and related to the wife of the vraxx technician who as killed by the ferocious vraxx officer
  whene Daniel was captured and agrees to help Daniel attempt an escape

daniel cannot pronounce the young vraxx's name, who agrees to allow daniel to call him mikey. they have many conversations thru chapters 0 and 1 and 2; eventually in chapter 3 mikey manages to find daniel's personal effects and brings one of the ankle bracelets FoF had provided. when daniel dons the braclet it immediately notifies FoF of his location.
    
write a makefile supporting macos and linux that creates a renpy novel from each markdown file in this folder


without removing existing prose proceed with more details in the first 3 chapters of @vol3DanielLionDenWolfLair.md to describe the darkest moments of Daniels time in the dark cold Vraxx prison cell as he is in deep in reverie, trying his best to recall the happier times of his life -- in college at Columbia and Sunday feasts in Brooklyn with Joe's family, and his regrets of missing an anthropolgy class with Margaret Mead his senior year; then in grad school at Johns Hopkins with classmates Luke and Dan and Erica and Juan with very supportive Professors Bruce Barnett and Arthur Anderson and Richard Elston; then his first contract jobs at NASA with Leon Herreid and Karin Babst and George Smoot and Alan Mcconnell and playing tennis with Bob Price and Richard Schwartz. At some point in his deepest darkest moment he realizes someone is whispering to him through a grating. It is FoF. She has located him through the ankle bracelet when it became briefly activated by his proximity before it was lost again during another round of torture. FoF manages to rescue Daniel at the end of chapter 3 via a newly designed teleportation harness she hands him through the grating in a tightly rolled pouch.

Daniel's parents divoced when he was an infant and he, and his todler sister who was 18 months older, and mother departed LA to return to live in DC where they were joined my his latin mother's abuela and abuelo. danial recalls bilingual conversations with his estranged parents. his mother is a polymath multilingual genious who started out as a solar astronomer at the smithsonian in dc when daniel was a child, while his father who remained in LA his entire career was a pioneer of NMR who turned down stanford to become a weapons physicist, Eventually while living in DC his mother switched fields after Smithsonian budget cuts and became an oceanographer at NOAA while his dad became the country's preeminant high engery laser weapons dev. 

the summer before his older sister entered high school Daniel and his sister Diana commenced a many summer practice of flying froma Reagan National to LAX where they were fetched by their father who kept a 30 foot sailboat in Marina Del Ray. Durin g many conversations spanning many summers Daniel's father spoke of his career as a physicist, and his belief that when one studies Physics one becomes well prepared for any high tech career. Daniel's father asserted that essentially Physcists can do anything and everything; so Daniel resolved to major in Physics when he would later attend college.


write a markdown doc with a complete student quide to AI entitled "Think and Do AI" as a user and a dev and implementor, and provide refs and inks to free
   publications and tutorials and related open source projects on gitlab and github 


describe the events immediately after  daniel's rescue in @vol3DanielLionDenWolfLair.md and his insistence on finding his young vraxx
   benefactor with FoF to bring the young vraxx along with them. FoF is unhappy to devote more time to teleporting through the vraxx bas to
   find the teenage boy, but daniel insist he would not be alive without the youngster's help; daniel describe how the young vraxx brought
   clean water and food that kept daniel alive. the subsequent chapter should provide a detailed description of their search of the vraxx base
   and a suprising discovery, along with persuading the young vraxx to join them


volkov becomes annoyed and concerned about zora's health and recruits another russian operative he believes is trustworthy. the new
   operative has a reputation for being brightt and quick and far stronger than most. eventually we learn the new operative is a well placed
   vraxx in their latest human genomic tech disguise

bailieboy's and grahamcracker's hackles rise when they meet mikey the teenage vraxx who helped daniel survive, despite the young vraxx's human disguise FoF has prepared. daniel and FoF realize that bailieboy and grahamcracker may somehow detect a vraxx by their keen sense of smell. eventually this becomes  a critical element by the end of vol3 in detecting that volkov's replacement of zora in a pending catastrophe of the penultimate chapter. include scenes of the partial unmasking and departure of the disguised vraxx, who takes the teenager with him as hostage. throughout each chapter insert scenes with the disguiesed vraxx collecting information about daniel and especially about FoF and relaying back to high command


 without removing any existing prose in @vol3DanielLionDenWolfLair.md provide more background and detailed history of FoF's advanced star
   fairing libertarian civilization and loose knit extended family culture with descriptions of their evolution from sloth-like marsupials who's
   biotech allows them to chage their appearance such that FoF presents herself on Earth as a 5 foot 2 inch tall human

provide more biology and botany of FoF's habitats and scene where she sheds her young adult human woman's appearance to present her true form
   to Daniel, then transforms back to human form. daniel asserts that her sloth marsupial form is more adventations, with her natueral pouch for
   tools and her natural hands have 6 digits -- 2 opposing thumbs really help with climbing and tool usage, etc.

without removing existing prose proceed with more details in all chapters of @vol3DanielLionDenWolfLair.md with Daniel devoting time in FoF's extensive technical library trying to understand her faster than light starship science and mention quaternion and tenser math and tachyons with comparison and human historical content, along with conversations with FoF comparing the history of her civilization and comparisons with human history 

without removing existing prose proceed with more details in all chapters of @vol3DanielLionDenWolfLair.md describe FoF's botech ablity to transform her hominid marcupial slo0th-like form to human and back and emphasize that she remains 5 foot 2 inches tall, but in her natural form she has fine tawny fur covering much of her body and that her feet are as dextorous as her hands

describe the young pre-teen vraxx mikey in detail as red furred wolf-like and upright biped with fangs and retractable sharp claws and dexterious human-like hands and how bailie the dog and graham the cat gradually accept him and his reciprical fascination with the pets and with daniel and FoF


 continue expanding the prose with removing any existing prose in @vol3DanielLionDenWolfLair.md to describe the young
   pre-teen vraxx mikey in detail as a red furred wolf-like upright biped with fangs and retractable sharp claws and
   dexterious human-like hands and how bailie the dog and graham the cat gradually accept him and his reciprical
   fascination with the pets and with daniel and FoF. mikey is quite bright and curious and learns to speak american
   english during the course of all chapters and eventually reveals his extended family are essentually slaves of the more
   dominent militant vraxx. the vraxx economy is founded on slave trade and the dominnts subscribe to a system one might
   describe as mix of spartan and roman and mongol empires; 90% of the vraxx population are slaves, akin to sparta's helots.

